.\" (C) 2002 Ian Gulliver
.TH libfiredns 3 2004-02-12
.SH NAME
libfiredns \- library for asynchronous DNS requests
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <firedns.h>
.br
.B -lfiredns
.SH DESCRIPTION
libfiredns is a library for handling asynchronous DNS
requests.  It provides a very simple interface for sending
requests and parsing reponses, as well as low-timeout
blocking functions.  It can also be compiled to override
the BIND/LIBC functions with its alternative implementations.
libfiredns functions have much lower timeouts than the stock
functions and tend to be faster because they send requests
to all configured system nameservers at the same time.
.P
Any function ending in "_r" is reentrant; it is safe to be
used from threaded programs, and it returns a dynamically
allocated buffer which must be free()'d later.
.P
Any function ending in "_s" takes a buffer as a parameter that
it will write to.
.HP
Non-network functions:
.br
.BR firedns_aton4 (3)
.br
.BR firedns_aton6 (3)
.br
.BR firedns_ntoa4 (3)
.br
.BR firedns_ntoa6 (3)
.HP
Non-blocking functions:
.br
.BR firedns_getip4 (3)
.br
.BR firedns_getip4list (3)
.br
.BR firedns_getip6 (3)
.br
.BR firedns_getip6list (3)
.br
.BR firedns_gettxt (3)
.br
.BR firedns_gettxtlist (3)
.br
.BR firedns_getmx (3)
.br
.BR firedns_getmxlist (3)
.br
.BR firedns_getname4 (3)
.br
.BR firedns_getname6 (3)
.br
.BR firedns_getcname (3)
.br
.BR firedns_getresult (3)
.HP
Blocking functions:
.br
.BR firedns_resolveip4 (3)
.br
.BR firedns_resolveip4list (3)
.br
.BR firedns_resolveip6 (3)
.br
.BR firedns_resolveip6list (3)
.br
.BR firedns_resolvetxt (3)
.br
.BR firedns_resolvetxtlist (3)
.br
.BR firedns_resolvemx (3)
.br
.BR firedns_resolvemxlist (3)
.br
.BR firedns_resolvemxalist (3)
.br
.BR firedns_resolvename4 (3)
.br
.BR firedns_resolvename6 (3)
.br
.BR firedns_resolvecname (3)
.HP
Miscellaneous functions:
.br
.BR firedns_free_mxalist (3)
.SH FILES
/usr/local/include/firedns.h
.br
/usr/local/lib/libfiredns.so
.br
/usr/local/lib/libfiredns.a
.br
/usr/local/etc/firedns.conf
.br
/etc/resolv.conf
.SH BUGS
This used to say:

FireDNS is very network unfriendly.  It sends queries to all
nameservers in /usr/local/etc/firedns.conf or (fallback) /etc/resolv.conf
at the same time.  This loads the nameservers and the network
much more than existing implementations but tends to get responses
much faster.

However, it seems that the network usage is well worth the 10 - 15% speed
increase (in ideal situations) that this program can provide.  If a primary
nameserver is down, this speed increase is > 10000%.
.SH AUTHOR
Ian Gulliver <ian@penguinhosting.net>
